One question that get asked a lot and a
lot is how do we keep up to date with
the latest AI news? Why why do you need
to keep up to date with the latest AI
news? If you talk to the users and
understand what they want, what they
don't want, look into the feedback, then
you can actually improve the application
way way way more.
>> A lot of companies are building AI
products. A lot of companies are not
having a good time building AI products.
>> We are in an ideal crisis now. We have
all this really cool tools. You have do
everything from scratch. It have your
design. It can have your right code. You
have your website. So in theory, we
should see a lot more. But at the same
time, it more or less somehow stuck.
They don't know what to build.
>> All this AI hype, the data is actually
showing most companies try it, doesn't
do a lot, they stop. What do you think
is the gap here?
>> It's really hard to measure
productivity. So I do ask people to ask
their managers, would you rather have
give everyone on the team very expensive
coding agent subscriptions or you get an
extra headcount. Almost everyone
managers would say headcount. But if you
ask VP level or someone who manage a lot
of teams they would say one AI assistant
because as managers you are still
growing. So for you having one HR head
is big whereas for executive maybe you
have more business metrics that you you
care about. So you actually think about
what actually drive productivity metrics
for you.
>> Today my guest is Chip Hen. Unlike a lot
of people who share insights into
building great AI products and where
things are heading. Chip has built
multiple successful AI products,
platforms, tools. Chip was a core
developer on NVIDIA's Nemo platform, an
AI researcher at Netflix. She taught
machine learning at Stanford. She's also
a two-time founder and the author of two
of the most popular books in the world
of AI, including her most recent book
called AI Engineering, which has been
the most read book on the O'Reilly
platform since its launch. She's also
gotten to work with a lot of enterprises
on their AI strategies and so she gets
to see what's actually happening on the
ground inside a lot of different
companies. In our conversation, Chip
explains a lot of the basics like what
exactly does pre-training and
post-training look like? What is RAG?
What is reinforcement learning? What is
RHF? We also get into everything she's
learned about how to build great AI
products, including what people think it
takes and what it actually takes. We
talk about the most common pitfalls that
companies run into, where she's seeing
the most productivity gains, and so much
more. This episode is quite technical,
more technical than most conversations
I've had, and is meant for anyone
looking for a more in-depth conversation
about AI. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. And if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of 16 incredible products,
including Devon, Lovable, Replet, Bolt,
NAN, Linear, Superhum, Dcript, Whisper
Flow, Gamma, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,
Magic Patterns, Rickcast, JPRD, and
Mobin. Head on over to Lenny's.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Chip when after a short word from
our sponsors. This episode is brought to
you by Dcout. Design teams today are
expected to move fast, but also to get
it right. That's where Dout comes in.
Dout is the all-in-one research platform
built for modern product and design
teams. Whether you're running usability
tests, interviews, surveys, or in the
wild fieldwork, Dout makes it easy to
connect with real users and get real
insights fast. You can even test your
Figma prototypes directly inside the
platform. No juggling tools, no chasing
ghost participants. And with the
industry's most trusted panel, plus AI
powered analysis, your team gets clarity
and confidence to build better without
slowing down. So if you're ready to
streamline your research, speed up
decisions, and design with impact. Head
to dscout.com to learn more. That's
dsc.com.
The answers you need to move
confidently. Did you know that I have a
whole team that helps me with my podcast
and with my newsletter? I want everyone
on that team to be super happy and
thrive in their roles. Just Works knows
that your employees are more than just
your employees. They're your people. My
team is spread out across Colorado,
Australia, Nepal, West Africa, and San
Francisco. My life would be so
incredibly complicated to hire people
internationally, to pay people on time
and in their local currencies, and to
answer their HR questions 24/7. But with
Just Works, it's super easy. Whether
you're setting up your own automated
payroll, offering premium benefits, or
hiring internationally, JustWorks offers
simple software and 24/7 human support
from small business experts for you and
your people. They do your human
resources right so that you can do right
by your people. Just works for your
people.
>> Chip, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Hi, Lenny. I've been a big fan of a
podcast for a while. So, I'm really
excited to be here. Thank you for having
me.
>> I want to start with this table
slashchart that you shared on LinkedIn a
while ago that went super viral. And I
think it went super viral because it hit
a nerve with a lot of people. And let me
just read this and we'll show this on
YouTube for people that are watching.
So, it's this very simple table you
shared of what people think will improve
AI apps and what actually improves AI
apps. what people think will improve AI
apps, staying up to date with the latest
AI news, adopting the newest agentic
framework, agonizing over vector
databases to use, constantly evaluating
what model is smarter, fine-tuning a
model, and then you have what actually
improves AI apps, talking to users,
building more reliable platforms,
preparing better data, optimizing
end-to-end workflows, writing better
prompts. Why do you think this such a
nerve with people? And just what if you
had to boil it down, what do you think
is what do you think people are missing
about building successful AI apps?
>> One one question that get asked a lot
and a lot is that how do we keep up to
date with the latest AI news? And I'm
like why why do you need to keep up to
date with the latest AI news? I know it
sound very counter counter intuitive but
there's so much news out there. A lot of
people also ask me questions like how do
I choose between two different
technologies like maybe like recently
like MCP versus like Asian Asians,
right? like protocol and it was like
which one is better or like this or that
and a ser question I used to ask them is
like first like if how much of the
improvements could you get like from
like optimal solutions versus nonoptimal
solutions right and sometimes they were
like actually it's not much right and I
was like okay if it's not much
improvement why do you want to spend so
much time debating something that
doesn't uh make that much difference to
your performance and another question
they asked is like if you adopt a new
technology like how hard it would be to
switch that out to another. And
sometimes it were like, oh, I think it
would be like a lot of work switching it
out. And I was just like, hm, let's say
here's a new technology. It hasn't been
tested by a lot of people. And if you
adopt it, you would be like stuck with
it forever. Like, do you actually want
to adopt it, right? And maybe you want
to think twice about about like
overcommit to like a new technology that
hasn't been battle tested. I love your
just broader advice is just simple like
talk to to build successful apps talk to
users build better data uh write better
prompts optimize the user experience
versus just like what is the latest and
greatest what's the best model to use
right now what's happening in AI let me
follow this thread of this idea of
fine-tuning and basically post-training
there's all these terms that people hear
in AI and I think this is going to be a
really good opportunity for people to
learn what we're actually talking about
since you actually do these things. You
build these things. You work with
companies doing these things. And um
there's a few terms I want to sprinkle
in through the conversation, but let's
start with this one. What what's the
simplest way for someone to understand
what is the difference between
pre-training and post- training and then
just how fine-tuning fits into that?
Just what fine-tuning actually is.
>> Disclaimer, I don't have like full
visibility into like on what like this
big secretive like frontier labs are
doing. Uh but right from what I heard,
right? So, so I think it's like one is
um like supervised fetuning when you
have demonstration data and you have
like a bunch of like um experts like
okay here's a prop right and here is
what the answer should be like and like
you you you just train it like on like
to like stim like uh simulate um like
emulate what the human expert would be
like and that's also like what a lot of
people would like um the the open source
models are doing they do it by
distillation so instead of having human
experts should like write really good
starting a great answers to like prompts
that get like very popular famous good
models to like generate a respond to it
and like getting this train smaller
model to emulate. So, so sometimes you
see people just like so that's because
like some I I really appreciate open
source community by the way but like
going from like have been able to train
a models that can emulate a existing
good model is very different from like
being able to train a good models like
an outperform existing good model. So
it's a big step there. Uh so yeah so
like we have supervised fetuning and
another things that's like very big uh
I'm not sure you have guessed talking
about it already but like reinforcement
learning is like everywhere. Okay, let's
pause on that because I definitely want
to spend time on that and that's such a
cool topic that I that's emerging more
and more in my conversations. But just
to even summarize the things you just
shared which I think is really really
important stuff. So the idea here is a
model is essentially this algorithm
piece of code that someone writes and
say the frontier models are feeding it
just like the entire internet of content
and basically it's trying to test itself
on predicting in all of the in across
all that data the next word essentially
token is a simpler way isn't the correct
way to think about it but a simpler way
to think about it is like the next word
in a in text and as it gets it wrong it
adjusts these things called weights
essentially uh just like is that a
simple way to think about it even though
that's that even that's just like very
surface level. So I think of language
modeling as a way of encoding
statistical information about a
language, right? So so let's say that um
we we both speak English. So we kind get
a sense of like what is more
statistically likely like if I say my
favorite color is then you would like
okay that should be another color like
the word blue would be much more likely
to appear than the word like uh of table
right because statistically blue is more
likely to come back to every color is so
so it's just like get is um it's is it's
a way of encoding statical information
so like when language modeling when you
train a large amount of data like it you
see a lot of languages a lot of domains
so it can tell like okay you bas say
this standards then if user do the
prompt then it would come like with the
next uh most likely token uh so by the
way it's not a new idea actually every
so it's the idea comes very very old
like from the 1951 papers um um the like
English entropy I think it's like called
Shannon it's a great paper and I think
every a story I really like um it's from
did you read Sherlock Holm by the way
>> uh yeah I read a few Sherlock Holmes
books yeah
>> yeah so so this is story of like when
Sherlock Holmes was using this statical
information to like have sewn a case. So
he was getting um so this in this story
uh there is uh somebody left message uh
with a lot of like stick figures. So
Shhol was like okay he knows that in
English the most common letter is E then
the most common stick figure must be E
right and then he goes he start like
that it was just s uh so the uh the code
so I think that's language so in a way
that's like simple language modeling
right but instead of like at a word
level he does it at like tok like
character level and token is something
in between right token is not quite a
word uh but it's bigger than a character
so let's say uh we we say token because
uh it helps us like read what help us
reduce vocabulary because with character
is like smallest amount of like
vocabulary right so the five has like 26
character but words can have like
millions and millions right uh whereas
um um tokens you can like
be able to like get like the sweet spot
between the two so let's say that we
have like uh the new word like uh uh how
to say like podcasting right let's say
it's a it's a new word but it can divide
podcast and ink So people understand
okay podcast we know the meaning we know
that ink is like uh like a verb like
girant whatever it is so we we know the
word like podcasting. So that's why the
token comes in but yeah uh that's like
the pre-tuning is basically like
encoding statistical informations of
language to have you predict what is
most likely um I think like most likely
is the most simple way of doing it. uh
because it's more like building a
distributions of like okay so the next
token could be like more like like 90%
of the time it could be like a color 90
like 10% of the time could be like
something else right so based on
distributions the language could like
pick like depending on your sampling
strategy like do you want it to always
pick the most likely token or you wanted
to pick something more creative you know
so so so I think sampling strategy I
think is something extremely important
can have you boost up performance in a
in a huge way and very very underrated.
>> Okay, awesome. So essentially uh a model
is just code with this whole uh set of
weights essentially the statistical
model that has learned to predict what
comes next after certain words and
phrases.
>> Yeah.
>> And then post-raining and fine-tuning
specifically is doing that same thing.
So pre-training you get like GPT5
fine-tuning is someone taking GPT5 and
doing the same sort of thing. uh
adjusting these awaits a little bit for
specific use cases on data that they uh
find is necessary to do their very
specific use case. Is that a simple way
to think about it?
>> Yeah, I think you ws as like functions,
right? So let's say just like you you
have uh maybe has a functions of like
maybe Lenny's height is maybe like 1x
like 1x plus something or like 2x like
one and plus something is is a waist,
right? So you change it until you fit
the uh the the correct data which is
like my height and your height, right?
So so you can think of the weight is
just like a way like they function. So
so you like chain adjust the weight so
they can fit the data which is a
training data.
>> Awesome. Okay. So so we're talking about
pre-training, post- training,
finetuning. Is there anything else here
that's important to share about just
like what this is exactly? What people
need to understand about these parts of
training? So the vast majority of time
we don't touch on like pre-union model
like as users we don't use already done
for us.
>> Yeah. So so I think actually it's bit of
fun like uh process like when my friends
training models like I try to play with
their pre-shing model and they're
horrendous. They like saying things like
oh my god this is like yeah it's crazy.
Um so so it's it's really interesting to
look at like how much of like post
training can change the motor behavior.
Um yeah and I think that's where like a
lot of time that a lot of people are
spending energy on nowadays in front lab
is on like post training because uh
pre-training uh I think um so preing
have been
used to like increase the general c
capacity of of of a model capabilities
of a model and it depends on a lot of
data and like model size to increase um
to increase the model capabilities and
at some point we are actually like have
max out like in data right and then
people like texted that pretty much I
think a lot of people are doing like
with other data like audios and videos
and everyone's trying to think of like
what is the new source of data but where
like post trading but like of course
like this more of like everyone can have
very similar pre-training data is like
post trading is where they make a big
difference nowadays
>> this is a good segue to you talked about
supervised learning versus unsupervised
learning I love we're getting into this
by the way this is super interesting so
you talked about labeled data basically
supervised learning is AI learning on
data that somebody has already labeled
and told it here's correct versus
incorrect for example this is spam
versus not spam this is uh a good short
story this is not a good short story
we've had u the cos of a lot of these
companies that do this for labs uh
mercor and scale handshake uh there's
micro uh there's a few others so is is
that essentially what these companies
are doing for labs giving them labeled
data high quality data to train on
>> it is in a way but I think it's more
like a product of big equations. So
there are a lot more different
components than that. So that's why I
was talking about reinforcement
learning. I'm not sure if your CEOs that
you interview bring up like that term.
Uh so so the idea is that um you want
people to like so like let's say you
have a model give the model like a prop
right and it produce an output right you
want to buy like you want to reinforce
or encourage the model to produce an
output that is better right so so like
how like now time to like how do we know
that the answer is good or bad right so
people realize on like um signals so one
way to get like a first one good or bad
is like human feedback Right? It happen
we have two responses. You can okay this
one is better than the other. Um and we
do that is because like as humans uh we
tend to it's very hard to give like
concrete score but it's easier to do
comparisons right like if you ask me
okay give this song a score. I'm not a
musicians like and don't know like how
hard it is like it's like yeah I don't
know like what like now 10 I go six you
know and like if you ask me again a
month from now and I completely forgot
okay maybe now seven or like four I
don't know but they need to ask me okay
here are two songs and which one would
you prefer to play for the birthday
party I was like okay I can prefer this
song so like comparison is a lot easier
um so say yes so we have a humans um you
have human feedback uh and then you use
this human feedback to train a reward
model so like tell like which like so
and then Free root model help you like
okay the model now produce this response
is robot model can score is this good or
bad you charge some bias toward like
producing better model the better
responses another ways like you can
instead of using a humans you can use
like AI right like a response say yes or
good good or bad right or the thing is
that people are very big on nowadays
like verifiable rewards which is like
natural um so basically they give it a
math problems and then math solutions uh
like is a model output a solution is you
know that okay expected response should
in a 42 and it doesn't provide 42 then
it's then it's wrong right it's not a
good response um so so yes so like uh a
lot of time people like using this um
human labor like human um human laborers
should like produce like m like um how
to say expert questions and like the
expected answers and in a way that like
design a system that like verifiable so
that the the models can can be trained
on yeah
>> okay I'm really glad you went there this
is essentially RHF reinforcement
learning with human feedback which is
exactly what I wanted to also talk about
right
>> yeah so um I think it's like it's
general it's like it's a way of learning
it's like training is contextual
learning and whether it learned from
human feedback or like AI feedback or
like verifiable rewards uh I think I say
you say just different way of like um
collei signals
>> awesome yeah that's uh I we had the c of
anthropic on the podcast and he talked
about their version of RHF which is
AIdriven reinforcement learning I love
the way you phrased it where you
basically you want to help the model.
You want to reinforce correct behavior
and correct answers and this is the
method to do it. Whether it's say an
engineer seeing an output from a model
being like no here's how I would code it
differently and then training and it's
training a different model that the
original model works with to tell it am
I correct or not correct. Is that right?
Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I think I think that's a way of
of looking into it and I think that's a
space is so exciting nowadays because
there's so many like domain expert task
that the model like that model
developers want model to do well on
right let's say you're like accountant
right like maybe you want to use a model
to have accounting task so I need a lot
of like accounting data like examples
from like accountants so you need to
hire a lot of them should I do it or if
you want to do physics problems or you
want to do um I don't know like legal
questions and stuff or like engineering
questions or like somebody was telling
me they want to do like uh using like
coding for to solve scientific problems
and not just like coding to build
product which is another different whole
realm of things and I also like using
very specific toolings like uh yeah like
I'm not sure what apps you use but maybe
like um for editing app or like
Quickbooks or like Google Excel like
they have very specific like tune
specific um expert expertise that you
want the models to learn. So like they
need a lot of like humans expert in this
area to like create data to train them.
Um and it's a massive things. It's like
people because uh everyone wants a lot
of data and like want slaps like
unlimited budget. Uh but uh whether I
think this is also like a little bit of
lowkey interesting economics. I'm not
sure you talk to to like the guest about
I thought it's very interesting to think
about because it's very lopsided, right?
because like there only like a very
small numbers of frontier labs right and
they want a lot of data and there's like
a massive amount of like startups or
companies are providing related data so
like you can see this companies like
this startup like doing later but they
have like maybe have like massive AR but
you ask them like okay so how many
customers you have and they could be
like oh a very small numbers I'm not
sure I'm not sure you you I saw you
smiling
>> yeah we chat we chat about that
>> yeah so so I'm like a bit like leave me
unease Right? They have like a companies
growing like crazy but it's like heavily
dependent on like
>> two or three companies and at the same
time like if I if I was this company
Frontier Labs what could be the right
economical things for me to do right now
I want a lot of startups I want to have
a lot of providers so I can pick and
choose and then this providers can also
like to compete each other to lower the
price and it's so dependent on me they
will sell to me regardless. So, so I
feel like Yeah. So, so this economics,
the whole economics is very interesting
to me and I'm curious to see how it
plays out.
>> What I'm hearing is you're uh you're
bearish on the future of these data
labeling companies because as you said,
they don't have a lot of leverage over
pricing because they have so few
customers and there's so many people
getting into the space. So, basically,
even though they're some of the fastest
growing companies in the world, you're
feeling like there's there's a challenge
up ahead.
>> I'm not sure if I'm bearish on it. Um I
think I'm curious because I think things
have has a way of work out in ways that
I don't expect. So I think that maybe
these companies they have a lot of data.
Maybe they wouldn't be able to use that
to like have some insight that helps
them like stay ahead of the curve, you
know. So so I don't know. Uh
>> a very fair answer. Okay. While we're on
this topic, I want to chat about evals,
which is a very recurring topic in this
podcast. This is the other piece of data
content these companies share that AI
labs really need. Can you just talk
about what an eval is the simplest way
to understand it and then how this helps
models get smarter.
>> So I think if people approach eval I
think there like two very different
problems. ones is a app builder right
like can I say I have an app uh that do
like uh maybe a chatbot very simple and
I know it's first thing that came to my
mind um and I want you to know is
chatbot is good or bad right so I need
to come up way with like evaluate the
chatbot um another thing is uh I think
of this as a uh task specific evol
design so let's say I'm a model
developer and I want to make my model
better at curve writing right and I was
like okay but how How how do I even
measure cerwiting right? So I would need
someone to like okay understand cer
writing and think about like what makes
good story like what makes a story good
and then designed the whole data set and
then criteria to evaluate creative
writing. Um so yeah so so I think
there's that I think it's like more like
eval design that is very interesting uh
come criteria um come guideline how to
do it and then also like train people
like how to do it effectively um so I
guess uh in a course I think Evar is
really really fun because it's extremely
creative uh I was looking at like
different avons people build and was
like wow like it's not dry at all this
is like super super super fun
>> we had a whole podcast any vals with HML
Haml and Shrea and uh and that's exactly
what they talked about is just it's
actually really fun to create evals for
for companies especially. So let's still
dig into that one a little bit more.
There's this kind of debate online that
I don't know how big of a deal this
debate is, but it feels like people uh
spend a lot of time thinking about this
this idea of do we need evals for AI
products? Some of the best companies say
they don't really do evals. They just go
on vibes. They're just like is this
working well? Can I feel it or not?
What's your take on just the importance
of building evals and the skill of eval
for app AI apps not the model companies?
>> You don't have to be like absolutely
perfect at things to win. You just need
to be like good enough and being
consistent about it. Okay, this is not
the philosophy I follow but like I have
worked with enough companies to see that
play out. So when I say like why company
don't need evaluate let's say you are
like an executive right and you want to
have a new use case. So here's a use
case you you started out we built and
it's like it works well right the
customers are somewhat happy don't you
don't have the exact metric for it but
like the traffic keeps increasing like
people seem happy people keep buying
stuff right and now here's our engineer
coming like okay we need eva for it and
so I think it was like okay how much
effort do we need to put into eva and
they were like okay uh maybe like two
engineers as much as much and it could
maybe would improve so was like okay so
how much expected gain can I get from it
and the engineer would be like oh maybe
you can improve it from like 80% to like
82% 85% right and I was like okay but we
take like that two engineers and we
launch a new feature then it could give
me like so much more like improvement
right so so I think it's like one of
them is like sometime people think of
evol okay this is good enough just don't
touch it like if you do spend a lot of
energy on eva I would like only
incremental improvement where it spends
the energy on like another use case and
maybe it's good enough that you vive
check it right so so I I do think it's
like maybe like that's a debate is about
um I do think that's like a lot of time
people just like get things to the to
the place when it's like okay good
enough people run but and then but of
course it's like there's a lot of risk
associated with it because if you don't
have a clear metric you uh you have a
good visibility to how the application
models are performing it might do
something very dumb or it can cost you
like I know some something like crazy
can happen so so yeah so um so so I do
think evol is very very important. If
you have if you operate at scale and
where like failures can have like
catastrophic consequences then you do
need to be very tyrannical about like
what you put in front of the users
understand different failure modes like
what could go wrong and also maybe in a
space that like is is a feature of the
product is as a competitive advantage
right you want to be the best at it you
want to have like a very strong
understanding of like where you are and
like where you are with the competitors
but it's just something that's like more
like a low key. Okay, this like
something is like okay that's not the
core or like it helps with our users
then maybe you don't need to be so so
obsessed or like tyical about it is okay
that's good enough for now and if it
fails then it fails like okay I know
it's like it's so terrifying but like
yeah um yeah I think it's all about like
the question of like return investment
um I'm a big fan of I love writing Eva
say it's like I understand why some
people would choose to not focus on Eva
right away and choose like bringing on
new functionalities instead.
>> Awesome. That is a really pragmatic
answer. What I'm hearing is eval are
great, very important, especially if
you're operating at scale, but pick your
battles. You don't need to write evals
for every little feature. Something that
Hamlin Shrea shared is that people need
just like I don't know five or seven
evals for the most important elements of
their product. Is that is that what you
see or do you see a lot more in
production that people build and need?
Um I I don't think of like
just a fixed number unlike the evol like
what was the goal of evol right the go
to evol is to guys of product
development um so so like you see evol
um because I think I'm a big fan of evol
is is that it helps you uncover
opportunities where the products are
doing well so I sometimes seen it very
often okay we look at the AA we realize
it's like okay it perform really poorly
on this like specific segment of users
and then we look into it's like what
what what what's what's wrong with it
and it turns out it's like we just like
don't have a good messaging to it. So
like we should like just focus on the
things that we doing can improve
significantly. Yeah. So I kind of the
number of evol is really depends like we
have seen product with like hundreds of
different metrics right like people like
going crazy this is because like product
is like general right have different
have like one avar for like I don't know
like uh verity have like one evolve for
like user sensitive data um and like
another is like is um for length but
like has a number of like um okay let's
just example complex simple like div
research so so you have the application
you have like build a to like do deep
research for you, right? like okay like
have a prompt like me say okay do me a
com comprehensive research on Lenny's
podcast and help me like some like uh
propose like show me report on what kind
of topics he's interested in what kind
of videos could get the most views or
like what topics that he's missing on
that he should be covering right like
have that kind of like prompt then how
do you evaluate the the result right I
don't think this like one like metrics
that would help maybe just like maybe
you have like a 100 I think somebody has
a benchmark and is they get like a 100
expert like write a bunch of prompts and
they go through like all the all the
answers on AI and I do it and it's like
it's extremely costly and slow right but
if I might have something else for like
one way was thinking about it um I was
talking to a friend about it and and one
way is like how to produce the result of
the of the summary right at first you
need to do like gather informations and
to gather informations you need to do a
lot search queries uh you like gathers
grab the search results and then from
the search results you like uh aggregate
and then maybe say okay I'm still
missing on this you have to go another
route and like another route is another
summary so every step of the way you
need evaluations right you don't need to
end to end so maybe the first search
query you might first think about like
okay now I write five search queries I
might look into like how good are the
search queries like do they like are
they like similar to each other because
you need five such queries that are very
similar like Lenny podcast nanny podcast
uh last month landed podcast like two
months ago right it's not it's not very
very exciting but like if the quer is a
podcast like the the keywords are like
more um more diverse right and then look
at the results of the of the search
query let's say you enter the search
query like Lenny Parscat data label like
and then they come up with like 10 pages
uh 10 results and then you come up with
like oh Lenny podcast on uh I don't know
m um I don't know like uh Frontier Labs
and have like 10 results. I might look
at a different web page like how much of
them overlapping like are we are we
doing both like the breath like getting
a lot of page but also like do we have
depth and also like have relevance
because we come up with a search queries
that completely irrelevant to the to to
the original prompt. So I feel like
every aspect of it it would need a way
of evaluating right so I don't think
it's just like how many evolve should I
get but like how many evolve should do I
need to get a good coverage a high
confidence in my application's
performance and also to help me
understand like where it is not
performing well so that I can fix it.
>> Awesome. And I'm hearing also just
especially for the very core use case
like the most common path people take in
your product is where you want to focus.
>> Yeah. So yeah.
>> Okay. Let me there's one more term I
want to cover and I want to go in a
somewhat different direction. Rag people
see this term a lot. RA what does it
mean?
>> So rag is stand for retrieval augmented
generations. It also not specific to JD
AI. So um the idea is just like for a
lot of questions we need context to
answer. So I think it came pretty oh I
think it's from the paper 2017.
So so someone was like um so they
realizes like for a bunch of like
benchmark when the question answering
benchmarks they realize it's like okay
if we give the model informations about
the questions then the answer can be
much much better. So what they do was
they try to retrieve information from
Wikipedia. So for for questionable
topics just like retrieve that and then
put in the context and like answer it
does much better. So I feel like it
sounds like a no-brainer, right? I mean
like obviously. So, so I think that's
what racket as a simplest sense is just
like providing the model with a relevant
context so so that it can answer the
questions and and that's where like
things get like uh really uh more more
interesting because traditionally when
it started out rack is mostly like text
um so so we we talk about like a lot of
way like how to prepare data so that the
model can retrieve u effectively let's
say there like not everything is a
wikipia page right like Wikipedia page
is pretty contained and like you know
everything about it is about a topic. Uh
but a lot of time you have documents
extremely long, right? And like they
have a weird way of like structures the
documents. Let's say that um you have
documents about Lenny uh podcast, right?
And in the in the future in the
beginning documents like from now on
podcast wouldn't refer to Lenny's
podcast, right? So let's say somebody in
the future like tell me about Lenny,
right? Lenny's work. And because the
rest of the document does not have the
term leni you just don't know uh you
might not read through it and the
document is long enough that it chunk
into a different part. So like the
second part doesn't have the the word
manic so you cannot reach. So I have to
find a way to like process data. So that
makes sure it's like it can retrieve the
information just relevant to the query
even though it might not immediately
like obvious that is related. So people
come up with like only thing I think
like contextual visual
um like uh giving x chunk of the data uh
the relevant like maybe like summary
meta data so that it knows um or like
some people use like as a hypothetical
questions it's very interesting like for
even the chunk of like documents I
generated a bunch of questions that the
chunks can help answer so that when they
have a a query it was like okay does it
match any of the like hypothetical
questions so it can it can fetch it so
it's very interesting approach
Okay. So maybe before I go to the next
thing I just want to say this like data
preparations for rack is extremely
important and I would say this like in
the a lot of the companies that I have
seen that's like the biggest performance
in their rack solutions coming from like
better data preparations not agonizing
over like what better databases to use
uh because database of course it's very
important to care about like things like
latency or like if you have like very
specific access patterns like read heavy
or write heavy Of course it's like it
matters but in term of like pure quality
answers right I think the data
preparation is just like hands out
>> when you say data preparation what's an
example to make that real and concrete
for us to understand
>> so so like one way is like uh um
mentioned as in like um you have like
chunks of data so we think about like
how big of each chunk should be right
because um if it's like so let's think
about like if a context you want to
maximize maybe you can it's very simple
example right you want to retrieve like
a thousand words right so If HM's data
is too long um then so if if a data cham
is long then it's more likely to contain
more relevant metadata so you can
retrieve more but if it's too long like
then you have a thousand word and so
chunk is like a thousand words you can
reach one chunk so it's not very useful
but it's too short then you can retrieve
more relevant information like oh so it
can retrieve a wider range of like
documents and chunk but at the same time
a chunk is too small to contain relevant
information. So you have like very nice
like chunk design like how big a chunk
should be. Uh you add like contextual
informations like summary, metadata,
hypothetical questions. Uh somebody was
telling me like um a very big
performance they got is that from um
rewriting their data in the question
answering format. So like instead of
having like so they have a podcast right
instead of just chunking the podcast you
just like reframe rewrite it into like
here's a question here's answers um like
and and produce a lot of them. you can
use AI for that as well. So that's one
example of data processing. A lot of
example we I see is like for people
helping like using AI to have like
specific uh tool use and documentations
right and a lot and we write
documentation usually a lot of document
documentation today is written for human
um reading and AI reading is different
because it's different because humans we
have like common sense and we kind know
what it is. Um so so one one things or
like uh human for human experts they
have the context that AI doesn't quite
have. So somebody told me that like
what's the big change they have is like
let's say that um you have a you have a
function a document uh documentation for
this maybe this library and this library
say okay the output of this one is like
maybe talking for like I know some crazy
term maybe some uh temperature something
under graph should be like one zero or
minus one and as a human expert maybe
understand the scale like what one in
the scale mean but like for AI just
really doesn't understand what that
means so so actually have like another
allot annotation
layer for AI it's like okay got
temperatures equal one mean like that
it's not like it's the abstra it's like
associated with the scale over there so
just saving all this data processing to
make it easier for AI to retrieve the
relevant information to answer the
questions
>> this episode is brought to you by
persona the verified identity platform
helping organizations onboard users
fight fraud and build trust we talk a
lot on this podcast about the amazing
advances in AI but this can be a
double-edged sword report. For every wow
moment, there are fraudsters using the
same tech to wreak havoc, laundering
money, taking over employee identities,
and impersonating businesses. Persona
helps combat these threats with
automated user, business, and employee
verification. Whether you're looking to
catch candidate fraud, meet age
restrictions, or keep your platform
safe, Persona helps you verify users in
a way that's tailored to your specific
needs. Best of all, Persona makes it
easy to know who you're dealing with
without adding friction for good users.
This is why leading platforms like Etsy,
LinkedIn, Square, and Lyft trust Persona
to secure their platform. Persona is
also offering my listeners 500 free
services per month for one full year.
Just head to withpersona.com/lenny
to get started. That's
withpersona.com/lenny.
Thanks again to Persona for sponsoring
this episode. Awesome. Okay. So, you've
talked a bit about how you work with
companies on these sorts of things, on
their AI strategies, on their AI
products, how they build, which tools
they build, all these things. I want to
spend a little time here because a lot
of companies are building AI products. A
lot of companies are not having a good
time building AI products. Let me ask a
few questions along these lines of what
you've learned working with companies
that are doing this. Well, one is just,
I guess, in terms of AI tool adoption
and adoption in general within
companies. There's all this talk
recently of just like all this AI hype.
The data is actually showing most
companies try it doesn't do a lot they
stop and so there's all this just like
maybe this isn't going anywhere. So in
terms of just adoption of tools and AI
within companies what are you seeing
there
>> for gen AI in company I think there are
two type of genai toolings that have
been uh I have seen like ones is to like
um internal productivity right like have
coding tool slack chatbot um uh internal
knowledge like a lot of big enterprises
have some kind like a wrapper around
like um model so but like with access
like maybe some different kind of racket
I think we talk about that Um okay like
text based rack I haven't talked about
like Asian tech rack or like multim
motor rack yet but it's like yes there a
whole very exciting area around that um
yeah so like b b b b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b basically to allows the
employee to like access internal
document. Uh somebody somebody asked
like okay um I'm I'm having a baby what
could be the maternal or paternal policy
right or like am I having this
operations with the health benefit like
cover that or like I want to like
interview or I want to like refer my
friend what could be the process for
that so a lot of this like having
chatbot internal chatbot to help with
internal operations um and um another
things um another category is more like
customerf facing um so or like partner
facing um so so customer support chatbot
is a big one you have a hotel chain you
might have like a booking chatbot which
is like somehow massive like a lot of
booking chatbot because I guess it's
it's it's I do have this theory of like
a lot of applications uh companies
pursue because they can't measure the
concrete outcome and I feel like booking
or sale chatbot it's very clear right
like what's a conversion rate right now
with a chatbot with human operators and
what could be conversion rate with a
chatbot and then some somehow I think
it's like very clear outcome comes and
companies are easier to buy into this um
this solutions. So a lot of companies
have that like customer uh facing
chatbot. Uh so yeah so so that is um
another category of tool um and I think
that um I think for customers or
external facing tools um because people
are driven to um people are driven to
choose applications with clear outcomes.
So, so the questions of uh adopting them
is really based on like whether they see
the outcome or not. Of course, it's not
perfect because sometimes uh the outcome
can be bad not because the idea or like
the applications idea itself is bad.
It's just because the
the I know the the process of building
it is like not that great. Um yeah. So,
so it's tricky for the internal
adoptions of like tooling. So, internal
productivity that's where it gets
tricky. I would say like a lot of
companies uh what they think of as a
strategy like I think of as have like
usually have very um have like two key
aspect right it's like use cases and the
second is talent you might have like
great data for great use cases but you
don't have talents and you cannot do it
so a lot of time in the beginning with
geni and it's still and sometimes I'm
really admire a lot of companies for
that it's just like exactly like okay we
need our employees to be very geni aware
like very AI literate right so what to
do is they start like maybe like
adopting a bunch of tools for for the
team to use. They have a lot of upskill
upscaling uh workshops like they
encourage learning. I think it's like a
really really good thing and it's also
like willing to spend a lot of money
into like adopting like um giving people
like touchd
subscriptions uh cloud code
subscriptions like to get the employees
to like to to be more AI literate. Um
and the other thing is like a lot of the
secretary come say okay we spend a ton
of money as this tool but then we don't
see because you can see the usage it's
like but people don't seem to use them
as much and what is the issue so so yeah
so I think is that that is um that is
tricky yeah
>> what do you think is the issue is it
just they're not they're like they don't
know how to use them like what do you
think is the gap here do you think we'll
get to a place of just like wow work is
completely different because of AI for a
lot of companies
The main thing is like it's really hard
to measure productivity uh gain. So I
talked to a lot of people and they was
like first of all on on sample is coding
right a lot of companies not using
coding agents uh or coding aided coding
uh and um I was asking I was like I was
like okay do do you think that like it
helps with your productivity and a lot
of time the question is very handwavy
just like okay like okay I feel like
it's been better right and okay because
we have more PRs uh we see more code and
then immediate correct me okay but of
course code number of life code is not a
good metric for that right so so it's
it's really really tricky and it's
something funny uh so so so I do ask um
people to ask their managers because I
work with like usually the VP level so
they have like multiple teams under them
so I ask them like okay do you ask
managers um like okay would you rather
have access uh would you rather have
give everyone on the team like very
expensive coding agent um subscriptions
or you get an extra headcount right
let's say it's like maybe like um and
and almost everyone could say the
managers could say headcount but if you
ask VP level or like someone who manage
a lot of teams they could say just like
they would want AI assistant assistance
tools and the reason is that people say
like okay because as managers right
because you are still growing like
you're not as a level when you you
manage hundreds of thousands of people
so for you like having one HR hash count
is like is big so you want that not for
productivity reasons but because you
just want you have more people working
for you. Whereas for executive, you care
more about like the um the maybe you
have more like business metrics that you
care about. So so you actually think
about like what actually drive drive
productivity uh metrics for you. Uh so
so yeah, so it's tricky. Um and I think
that's like the question of like
productivity.
um it's not I'm not sure it's like
fundamentally is the some people are
more productive but it's just like we
don't have a good way of measuring
productivity improvement. Uh another
thing is also varies wily um and I think
that people do tell me that they notice
different buckets of of employees like
different reactions to AI assisted tools
like first of all I keep going back to
coding because it's big and it's like
easier to like reason about um so it
says like um I have different reports
like one team would tell me that like um
one of the people tell me okay amongst
all his engineers he think it's like
senior engineers would get the most
output like would be more productive
because it's like okay so that person
very interesting so so he actually
divided his team to like three bucket
but he didn't tell them obviously he was
like okay here's more like currently
like u best performing average
performing and lowest performing and
then there's a randomized trial so like
they give like half of each of each
group like access to like to like cursor
and then was noticed like over time was
like okay the something funny like the
the group that get the biggest
performance boost like in his opinion.
So it goes very close to his team as the
biggest boom Bruce like is the senior
engineer the highest performing. So the
highest performing engineer get the
biggest boost out of it and then the
second group is just like the um the
average performing. So so he so his
opinion is like okay the highest
performing engineers they also more
proactive they say know how to solve
problem. So AI helps them to solve
problem better. Whereas the people who
are lowest performing they only don't
care much about work right? So like it's
easier to just like go on autopilot get
it to like generate like bad code and
just like do it and I just don't know
what to do with it. As another company
however they told me just like actually
senior engineers are the one most
resistant to like using AI as tooling
because they said it's like okay but AI
because they are more opinionated and
they have very high standard was like
okay but AI code jet code just sucks. So
just like very very resistant in using
this. So I don't know I I haven't quite
be able to reconcile like very different
reports on that yet.
>> This is so interesting. So just to make
sure I'm hearing what you're the story.
So there's a company work with that did
a three bucket test with their
engineering team where they created
three sorts of groups. The highest
performing engineers, mid-performing
engineers, lowest performing engineers
uh and gave some of them so they gave
some of them access to say cursor. Was
it cursor or what did they give them
access to? It was cursor.
>> I think by then it was cursor.
>> Okay, cool. And so
>> I didn't work with them. This more like
a friend company.
>> Okay. It's a friends company. So do they
give like half of the higher performing
engineers cursor and half not or how did
they do the split?
>> Yeah. So like they give like half of the
entire company but like half for each
bucket. Yeah. And then they observe the
difference in like productivity.
>> I see. Yeah.
>> So how do they even do that? They're
just like okay you get cursor, you don't
get cursors. That how did they do that?
That's so interesting.
>> Yeah. I I didn't again just the
mechanics of it. Uh but but I was like
at Raspia for doing a randomized trial.
>> That is so cool. Yeah.
>> Okay. Wow. How large was this
engineering team? Was it like hundreds
of people?
>> Um it's it's not that large. It's about
like maybe um 30 40. Yeah.
>> 30 to 40. Okay. Yeah.
>> Wow. Okay. So they found that the
highest performing engineers had the
most benefit from using AI tools and
then behind them was the middle tier
engineers and the worst performers
>> were the lowest performers. Okay.
>> But also not the same everywhere. Um
like companies Yeah. Yeah. different.
>> Right. This other example you shared of
just senior engineers in this one
example are most resistant to changing
the way they work which I get. I I do
feel like the most valuable people right
now other than ML researchers uh and AI
researchers like yourself are senior
engineers because it feels like junior
engineers are just like so much of this
is now done by AI but an engineer that
knows what they're doing that
understands how things work at a large
scale with AI tools just basically like
infinite junior engineers doing their
bidding feels like an extremely valuable
and powerful asset.
>> Yeah. Uh I definitely like really
appreciate as you see companies like we
appreciate engineers who are um have a
good understanding of the whole systems
and be able to have good problem solving
skill like thinking holistically instead
of like local uh locally um when our
company have seen as the way they work
as they told me they work completely
different now I like so they actually
restructured engineering arc so that
like they get more senior engineer
should be more in the PR review because
they like to get like sort of writing
guidelines on like what is a good
engineering practices. Um what is a
process would be like they be like okay
so they write like a lot of like
processes uh on how to work well and
then they um and then they have more
more junior engineers just like produce
code and and like submit PR but senior
engineer more in the reviewing case. So
I think is it might be prepare for the
future. So another company actually told
me something very similar. So that kind
preparing the future when they only need
a very small
group of like very very strong engineers
to like create like processes and like
reviewing code to get into production
but I get like AI or like junior
engineers should like produce code but
then the question becomes like how does
one become a very strong
>> right that's right that's right I feel
like
>> yeah so so I don't know what's the
process was thinking about like yeah um
>> no one's thinking It's just it's a
problem. We won't have any more in 10 20
years. There'll be no more engineers
because no one's hiring junior
engineers. Although I could make the
case junior engineers, people just
getting into computer science right now
are just native AI native. And in
theory, you could argue they will become
really good really fast if they're
curious, aren't just, you know,
delegating learning and thinking to AI,
but learning how to actually using it to
learn how to code well and architect
correctly. like you could argue they
will be the most successful engineers in
the future.
>> I do think that what I mentioned is like
loading to architect um I think I I
group that in like system thinking I do
think it's very important skill because
I think AI can help automate a lot of
like um destroy the skills but like
knowing how to like utilize the skills
together to solve a problems is is very
uh it's is it's hard. So there's a a
webinar between um Mer Sami who was my
one of my favorite professors. He was a
chair of the curriculum of the CS
department at Stford. We spend a lot of
time thinking about CIS educations right
like what what what should students
learn nowaday like AI coding and then
the other person is like Andrew which is
of course it's like a legend in the AI
space and NAMI person like Sami said
something very interesting is like he
said like a lot of people think that CS
is about coding but it's not like coding
is just a means to an end like CS is
about system thinking like using like
coding to solve actual problem and
problem solving will never go way
because like what like AI can automate
more stuff the problem just get bigger
but like the process of understanding
what cause the issue and like how to
like design step-by-step solution to it
will always be there um so I think an
example of um of like I actually have a
lot of issues with like AI for like um
in the way of like is debugging so I'm
not sure you use a lot of air for coding
but like something I've noticed and also
seen from my friends it's like it is
pretty good when you have very clear
welldefy task maybe write do re
documentations
fixes specific features or like build an
app from scratch right like doesn't have
to interact with a large existing code
base but it added something like a
little bit more complicated um maybe
require interacting with a lot of
components and stuff is usually like not
that good um and and for example like I
was using AI to like use um to deploy an
applications um and I was testing out a
new uh hosting service I was not
familiar with I was like okay like
usually they for me so what they think
AI does give me is like confidence to
try new tool like before with AI is like
trying new tools has a lot of
documentations for the beginning but I
was like okay just try it out and and
learn. So I was testing out this new
hosting service and it kept getting a
bug. It was like very very annoying and
I was like okay I asked uh car codes
like fix it and it keep g keeping like
it keep changing the way like maybe
change environment variable fix the code
maybe I change from the function to this
function maybe change the language maybe
it doesn't process JavaScript well I
don't know whatever and it didn't work
and I was like okay that's it I'm just
going to read the document document uh
documentation myself and see what's
wrong and it turns out it's like I'm on
another tier like the fish I want did
not is not available in this tier.
Right? So I feel like okay so the issue
with clon is trying to focus on fixing
things from a very a different component
where the issue is from a different
component. So I think I think of like
okay be understanding like how different
components um work together and where
the source of issue might come from you
need to you need to have a holistic view
of it and this made me think is like
okay how do we teach AI like system
thinking like like that right I think I
have all the human experts like having
like right like very much built scaffold
uh just like okay for this kind of
problem look into this look into that
look into that and then stuff so so I
think is that could be one way but also
made me think is like how do we teach
humans like system thinking. Um yeah, so
so yeah. So I think it's very
interesting um skill. I I do think it's
very important.
>> That's exactly the same insight Brett
Taylor shared on the podcast. He's the
co-founder of Sierra. He created Google
Maps. He was CEO of Salesforce, Quip, a
few other things. And I asked him just
like should people learn to code? And
his point is exactly what you said,
which is learning taking computer
science classes is not about learning
Java and Python. It's learning how
systems work and how code operates and
how software works broadly, not just
here's like a function to do a thing.
One thing that I wanted to help people
understand, you you wrote this book
called AI engineering, which is
essentially helping people understand
this new genre of engineer. And you have
this really simple way of thinking about
the difference between an ML engineer
and an AI engineer which has a really
good correlary to product managers now
of just like an AI product manager
versus a non-AI product manager. The way
you describe it and fill in what I'm
missing is just ML engineers built
models themselves. AI engineers use
existing models to build products.
Anything you want to add there? One
thing I really dislike about writing
books is that you have to defy like this
and and I think it's like no definition
to be perfect because they always be
like edge cases. Um but yeah in general
I think it's like just like gen like AI
as a service like more as a service like
when somebody build the models for you
and the base model performance is a
pretty shock. So, so it's like it's
enable people to just like okay now I
want she in integrate AI into my product
I don't need to learn what green is even
though knowing that could really help uh
but but yeah it's like it makes the
entry barrier really low for people who
want to use AI to build product and at
the same time AI capabilities are like
so strong like it's also like increase
like the possibilities like the type
applications that AI can be used for so
I think like yeah so like both entry
barriers like super low and like the
demand And for like a applications like
a lot bigger. So it feels very very
exciting. It opens up like a whole new
world of possibilities.
>> Oh yeah. It's like now you don't have to
time you don't even have to spend time
building this AI brain. Now you can just
use it to do stuff. Uh such a such an
unlock. Okay. Maybe just a vital
question. You get to see a lot of where
what's working, what's not working,
where things are heading. I'm curious
just if you had to think about in the
next two or three years just where
things are heading. What do you think
what do you think how do you think
building products will be different? How
do you think companies working will be
different? If you had to think of maybe
the biggest change we expect to see in
the next few years in terms of how
companies work.
>> I think in a lot of organizations they
don't move that fast, right? Um but at
the same time they also move faster than
I expected. uh because again I think
it's like biased like and don't work
with dinosaur companies don't care like
a lot of executive who comes to me are
like very forwardlooking so maybe for me
I'm very biased uh towards towards like
organization just like move fast um so
so yeah so I think one big change I see
is just like in organizational structure
um I think it's like a lot of value
place um in like um so before like we
have like a lot of disjointed team like
we have very clear like engineering ing
team, product team. But then there's a
question of like who should write Eva,
right? Like who should own the matrix?
And it turns out it's like Eva is not a
um it's not a it's not a separate
problem. It's a system problem, right?
Because you you you need to look into
different components how interest each
other. You need user behaviors because
you need to know what users care about
so that you can so that you can like
write write about like reflect what
users care about. So, so all of that
like you can sort it from like you know
look into different component
architectures uh place guardrails and
stuff. So it's just engineering but
understanding users is like what product
right so so because of like a lot of
things and they are extremely important.
So like that guy bring product team and
like engineering team even like
marketing team like user acquisition
like very close to each other so so yeah
since in a way people are structuring so
that's more communications between like
previously very distinct functions.
Another thing is I also see as teams um
of course like think about like what can
be automated in the next few years and
what what cannot be automated and I see
that people already like shedding like
actually is it's a little bit like scary
to think about it but I also think it's
like the team told me it's like okay
this is between you and me but we have
we like got rid of these functions right
like for a lot of thing like uh
previously outsource for example like
traditionally is a business outsourcing
this core to them and like can done with
like not um can be a more um system uh
um systematized um so so with that you
can actually like use AI like automate a
lot of that and also like a separation
think more like what is the value of
like junior engineers or like senior
engineers how you restructure
engineering for that um so so yeah so I
do definitely think that um is one thing
to success organization people are just
moving pieces around and like thinking
about like use cases um whether you need
to like spin out new use cases and who
would lead a new effort and like yeah um
that is one big uh change. Another
things in ter of like AI, I think this
is um I'm not sure how true this is. Um
I guess I'm I'm also like on the camp of
like thinking that is has merit is it's
a camp of like okay uh base models we
have probably like not quite max out but
we want we unlikely to see like really
really strong like craziness strong
models. So like you remember like when
we have like GBT right then GB2 which is
a big step up like an order of magnitude
like like better than like GBD and then
GB3 which like much much bigger GB4 much
much bigger and then of course I have
GBD 5 but like is GB 5 like that scale
of like much bigger like a step jump
compared to like the previous I think
it's a debatable right so so I think
that it's like we had reached a point
where like the base model um performance
improvement is not going to be like
mind-blowing it was in the last three
years uh so so I think it's like a lot
of like improvements we're going to see
in the post training phase in the
application building phase um and um and
yes also I think that's where I feel I
was see a lot of improvement there so
very like interesting like multimodality
um so we've seen a lot of uh text based
uh but I think there a lot of um audio
videos use cases uh that is very very
exciting and I think audio is not quite
as soft as thinking because I do work
with like with with like a couple of
like voice startups and when I talk to
think about voice it's a entirely
different beast uh so let's say have
chatbot right we go from a text chatbot
to voice chatbot it's like the consoles
are completely different because now
with voice chatbot right we need to
think about like latency because like
multiple steps uh first like like text
like like voice to text text to text and
text question into text answer and then
like and then text to voice answer right
so it's like manable hops and like
latency become very important and
there's a question like what does make
you sound natural so for example like
people think like um in in in AI and
humans so like when humans talk to each
other like if I say if I say you try to
interrupt me it's like um chip that
right I would like pause and I try to
hear you out right but sometime I may
just say say some word not like
acknowledge when I mhm that I shouldn't
stop I just continue so the question of
like force interruption like whether
it's like I should should I stop or not
like it's is a big and like what
perceived as like natural conversations
and that's also regulations right
because like because like a lot of time
people want to build AI chatbot voice
chat bots that sound like humans try to
like trick users into thinking they're
talking to humans but also of like maybe
potential regulations saying like okay
you have to disclose to users when to
talk if the if the bot is talking to is
human or um or AI. So, so I think just
like um there's a whole space I think
it's not quite as so as as you think is
it but it's al it's not quite like an AI
foundation model problem right because
like a human interruption detection is
actually a classical machineing problem
like you you it's is a different uh
framing but like you can view classifier
for that or or like the question of like
let's see actually have a massive
engineuric challenge not an AI challenge
of course it can be an AI challenge
because people are trying to build like
voicetovoice model. So instead of having
like having to first like transcribe the
voice from me into text and then get a
model generous text answer and get
another model to like turn from text to
speech, you just like voice your voice
directly. So that is something who are
working on but it's like very hard. Um
yeah. So so yeah. So like even audio I
think of it is like the easier than
video right because video have like both
image and voice. Uh it's already like
pretty hard. So I think it's a lot of
challenges in that space.
That was an awesome list of things. Let
me mirror them back real quick. So what
you're predicting in the next few years,
things that will change in the way we
work and these actually resonate with so
many conversations I've had on this
podcast. So this is just kind of
doubling doubling down on where things
are heading. One is the blurring of
lines between different functions
instead of just like design engineering.
Everyone's going to be doing a lot of
different things now. Uh, two is just
more of work being automated with agents
and all these AI tools and just in
theory productivity going up. Third is a
shifting from pre-training models to
post-training fine-tuning and things
like that because to your point model
models maybe are slowing down and how
smart they're getting. Although I'll
point folks to the ed chat with the
co-founder of Anthropic. He made a
really good point here. He's like we're
really bad at understanding what
exponentials feel like when we're in the
middle of that. And also models are
being released more often. So the
difference between them we may not
notice because they're just happening
more often versus GPT3 came out like a
year I don't know a before after JPT2.
So uh maybe true maybe not. And then the
fourth point you made is this idea of
multimodal investing in multimodal
experiences. I cannot wait for JPT voice
mode to get better at interruption. Like
exactly what you're saying. I'm just
like talking to it and then someone
makes a little sound. It's like okay and
then you have to and then it's like and
then it stops talking. It's so annoying.
I'm shocked that we don't have better
voice assistant at home yet. I think I
have been testing out a bunch. Like I
keep hoping, oh my god, Zach could be
the one and then I know how many of them
I just like had to get away because
they're not that good.
>> I think it's coming. I hear it's coming.
Anthropic is working with someone uh
that I don't know if it's launched or
not yet.
>> Yeah, I want to bring back to what you
mentioned about like the your guest like
from Antropic mentioned about the
performance uh improvement. I think
there's a big change. Um I think like um
this difference between um a model based
capability so I'm not talking about like
the pre-trained model right versus a
perceived performance. So, so let's say
just like um a machine thought about
like are you familiar with the term test
time compute?
>> Uh I don't think so.
>> Yeah, help us understand. So um so so
the idea is like okay like um you have
some a fixed amount of compute, right?
So you're going to spend a lot of
compute on pre-shooting or training the
model pre-tuning and then have spend a
lot of uh some computing and the ratio
like pre-tuning to the post training
compute is like crazy varies different
between different lab um um and also
like since then has to spend comput uh
on like Jerry inference when I have a
train and 500 model now it want to like
serve to users so I might type a
questions or prompt and like Jerry like
do inference like and that requires a
compute and I guess I feel about
discussion of like uh should I spend
more compute on like pre-tuning or
fetuning or inference right because like
inference and people found I was just
like test time compute so like spending
more compute on inference is like call
like test time like u compute uh like
the strategy of like just allocating
more resources compute resource to
generate uh inference when I bring
better performance and how does that do
it like let's say um let's say you have
a math questions right and maybe instead
of just generic one answer I can gen
four different answers and say okay
whichever is uh the best according to
some standard uh or like okay have four
answers and then maybe like three of
them say 42 and one of them said like 20
okay three of them in the in in
agreement so the answer should be 42
right so like just people shouldn't
generate a bunch of it or another thing
is like a lot of time like reasoning uh
thinking just like people should like
generate more thickening tokens I spend
more time thinking before showing the
final answers uh it's like require more
compute but also like give it more uh
more and more more better performance.
So so yes. So so so I think it's like
from the user perspective right like
when the model spend more time exploring
different potential answers thinking
longer it can give you much better final
answers but the base model itself does
not change.
>> Awesome.
>> Does it make sense? Yes.
>> Yes. Absolutely. Uh that is a good
correlary to uh to Ben man's point.
>> Yeah. Chip, we covered a lot of ground.
I've gone through everything I was
hoping to learn and more. Before we get
to our very exciting lightning round, is
there anything else that you wanted to
share? Anything else you want to leave
listeners with?
>> So, I do work at a few companies that
does this things of like they want
employees to like come up with ideas.
So, there's a big debate on like what is
a better way for a strategy, right?
Should it be top down or like bottom up,
right? Should like executive come up
with like one or two like killer use
case and like everyone like allocate
resource to that or like should you give
engineers and PMs and smart people like
come up with ideas and I think it's a
mixture of both. So, so some companies
it was like okay we hire a bunch of
smart people like let's see like what
they come up with and they they organize
like hackathons or like internal
challenge to get people to to build
product and one things that um I noticed
is like a lot of people just like don't
know what to build uh and it shocked me
like why I feel like we are in some kind
like an idea crisis right now we have
all this really cool tools to have you
like do everything from scratch I can
have you like design it can have you
like write code it can have build
website. So in theory we should see a
lot more but at the same time people are
like somehow stuck like they don't know
what to build and and I think it's like
maybe a lot of had to do with like maybe
like um society expectations because
like we have gone through uh we have
gone into this phase of like
specializations like people like uh very
highly uh specialized and people are
supposed to do like focus on one thing
really well instead of like a big
picture and we don't have a big picture
of you. it's hard to come up with like
ideas of what to build. So, so I know
what like uh when when I work with this
company on this hackathon like we do
work out like a how come up with a
guideline like how to come up with ideas
and usually what we think of is like
okay like one tip is like go look from
the last week right like for a week just
like pay attention to what you do and
what frustrate you and when something
frustrate you think about like is there
anything we can do
is there like can you be done a
different way so it's not frustrating
and you can talk like people can swap
accept notebooks or teams and if you see
common frustrations maybe just something
you can think about like just to build
something around that. So yeah so I feel
like um just like notice like how we
work uh thinking of like ways to like
constantly ask questions like how can be
better and then I just build something
to like address the frustrations. I
think it's a good way to just like learn
and adopt AI.
>> I think people have felt exactly what
you're describing every time they open
up one of these vibe coding tools where
they could just describe anything you
want. I'm like I don't know what do I
want? And and I love this very tactical
piece of advice, just like what
frustrates you, just pay attention to
where you're frustrated. For example, I
just built a very cool little VIP coded
app. I was working on a newsletter post
inside Google Docs and I I pasted all
these images into the Google Doc from
screenshots and stuff and and then I
forgot, oh yeah, you can't take images
out of Google Docs. It's like this Hotel
California experience where you can
paste stuff into it. Very hard to get
images back out. So, I just went to all
the VIP coded tools and just build an
app that I can give you a Google doc URL
and it let me download all the images
automatically and it worked amazingly
well and it made it really cute and I'll
I'll link to it in the show notes.
>> Oh, I would love to see that. I do I'm
very bullish on like using AI just
create like micro tools like just
something just like make your life a bit
easier
>> and 100%. I feel like that's one of the
main ways people are using these tools
just like a little niche problem they
have. With that, Chip, we've reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Yeah. Always. No. No. Uh, depends on how
hard the questions are.
>> They're very consistent across every
guest. So, uh, I imagine you've heard
them before. First question, what are
two or three books that you find
yourself recommending most to other
people? O I'm really terrified of like
book recommendations because I feel like
what books a person should read really
depends on what they want and where they
in life and where they want to get to.
Uh but there's several books that I do
think is really change the way I think
and see the world. So one thing is a
selfish gene that's like understand uh
it actually changed uh it actually
helped me with the question like whether
I want to have kids or not. uh because
it's like uh understanding more of like
um yeah a lot of our functions of way we
operate is the functions of our genes uh
and genes want to do one thing was like
to procreate uh so so yes in a little
way but I like the book also proposed
another thing it's like um so everyone
wants to live forever right now and
maybe it's not like consciously but
subconsciously we do we do want that and
and I said two ways like one is like by
genes like genans wants just like want
to continue forever But also there are
two ideas. Um I think there's something
going meme. Uh it's like being a boy if
you have some ideas out there and then
it's like last for a long time. That's
the one you like live on. I know it's
like it's a little bit like um abstract
but I thought it's very interesting. The
other books I really really like. It's
like from like u the book from um
Singaporean um previous um I think he's
known as the father of Singapore. I know
like Limi Guango I'm not so sure what's
the title it but like he did so he was
the one who led Singapore from uh he
changed uh Singapore from a third
country to a forceful country within 25
years and I have never seen any country
leaders spend so much effort into like
pushing down his thought on like how to
build a country uh like like that um
yeah I talk a lot about like public
policy like how to like create policies
that encourage people to do the right
thing that is good for the nation And
also talking about like uh foreign
affairs, foreign policies like the
relation of like the country with other.
So it's a really good book to think
about. For me it's like system thinking
but like it's a different kind system
which is country which a lot of us don't
get a chance to like ever experiment in
our life. So it's good to learn about
that.
>> What was the name of that second book?
>> Uh it's called like from third to first
world fashion. I think I have it
somewhere here. Yeah,
>> there it is. Show and tell. That's
that's awesome. I definitely want to
read that. That's a really good tip.
I've heard a lot about just the impact
he's had and I've seen all these videos
on Twitter of just his really wise
insights into how to build a thriving
society and clearly
>> believe like how does he have time to
write is such a thick book. It's like
insane.
>> That is Claude. Please summarize. I'm
just joking. Uh by the way, selfish. I
also absolutely love that book. That is
such a good choice. It's such an under
the radar kind of book that really
changed the way I see the world as well.
Uh so really good pick. Okay, next
question. Do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show you really enjoyed?
>> So I watch a lot of movie and TV shows
as a research uh because I I working on
my first novel and I recently uh sold
it. So I'm interesting like what makes
So it's a drama. It's not a science
fictions or uh anything that like tech
people usually read. So it's it's very
like I know it's a very um out of the
left field out of left field and like
very um so like reading watching TV to
see like what kind of stories become
popular trying to understand the trope
and and stuff like that. So I'm not sure
if the audience like
>> well what's one what's one that taught
you something about writing?
>> I think it like uh Yami Palace is a
Chinese TV show.
>> Cool. Okay. I haven't that one on the
podcast before. Okay. Yeah.
>> Next question. Do you have a life motto
that you often think about come back to
when you're dealing with something hard
whether it's in work or in life?
>> This sounds very nihilist. I think so.
Say it's like in the end nothing really
matters. Uh usually think of like in the
grand scheme of thing like in a billion
years nothing will like no one would
ever be there. I think okay some people
argue with me about that. So I go to
like I so my theory is like in a billion
years like none of us would ever exist
like so like whatever like messy things
like crazy things we do or like how bad
we do it I mean no one would be remember
wouldn't be there to remember it and I
think in a way it's like it sounds scary
but it's very liberating because it just
allows me okay let's just try things out
right like why does it matter and there
a story of like recently um so we have
some family member who passed away
recently and I was talking to my that
because I couldn't be home for that. I
was asking my dad like okay is there
anything I can do to make the person
like oh something like comfort anything
you can get that person and my dad was
just like what can he possibly want at
this moment like and this made me real
like at the end of life like there's
nothing that can bring you like like
material can bring you joy there's no
like money no product nothing and in a
way feel like okay what really do I
really care about at the end of the day
um so I guess it's like I think about it
if it's like okay maybe I fail it maybe
don't get the contract maybe things like
in but in the end at the end of life
like I don't think that actually really
matters so in a way it's like it's quite
liberating
>> uh I know you said it might be
nihilistic this is what Steve Jobs
shared too in one of his most famous
speeches just we will all die someday so
don't take things so seriously
and it is freeing absolutely it just
makes you appreciate every moment every
day you have just like yeah let's just
do something hard and scary okay final
question you talked about how you're
writing a novel most people in tech uh
have never written something creative
and fiction. What's just like one thing
you learned in the process about how to
write better stories, better fiction?
>> A lot of time when we read uh we get
trip up by some small things. So I think
like I I want to do [__] writing because
I just want to go a better writer and I
thought like maybe try my like a
different audience could help me like
become better like anticipating what
this different type of audience would
want to hear and like like what they
care about. So this is a way for me to
get a so I think about writing or like
even like any kind of like content
creations is about like predicting the
users's reactions right
>> just kidding.
>> Yeah. So, so like you do a podcast, it's
like okay, what kind of things that the
users could find engaging, right? And
and I find this like a little bit like
uh in a lot of companies like you have
like launch a product, you have a
narrative coming out, okay, what kind do
we position this product in a way that
like users would want, right? So, I feel
like I have done technical writing for a
while and I felt like I have had some
experience like trying to predict what
engineers would want to hear all care
about. But then I don't have an
experience like this completely
different type of audience. So that's
what I want you to like career writing
creating a story and that's why I was
doing a lot of research on like watching
I mean going research enjoy a lot like
watching a lot of dramas. I just see
like what what people like. Um so so one
things that I care about is just like I
think I learned is like what like
emotional journey was from my editor,
right? So like when we write something
we we care about like how users would
feel like across the the story like we
want something in the beginning, right?
We want something just like we need to
have a hook so that people continue
reading. But we also don't want too much
of like drama because we'll get like too
tired, right? like uh because like the
emotionally exhausted like because it's
like you're being like emotionally
manipulated like a lot of time. So it
give like emotional emotional journey
maybe have like some some climax or like
some something more chill or like maybe
like I so care about another things I I
didn't realize like for me for for
technical writing you entirely focus on
the content like the argument is very
impersonal right like it it like for
example like people like ML compilers
like doesn't matter if they like the
person telling them about compiler or
not right because it's just like
objective like like but like for for
novel people care about like character
likability
So, so like in in the first version is
my story and makes the characters like a
little bit more like uh very uh very
logical, very rational and just does
everything just like very rationally.
And then the feedback I got is I have a
very good friend read it and he was he's
a amazing person. He's a great person
and he was like chip I be honest you I
hate that person. So it doesn't matter
as a story. It's just like the person is
so unlikable. So let's say he doesn't
find so is a second version and makes a
person the character more likable like
what how she makes that character more
likable is that you put in some
vulnerability like sometime that okay
maybe a person like has setback because
some people can relate to it. See in a
lot of ways it's like it's very
interesting. It's like a lot of it is
like um yeah, a lot of it is it's about
like understand the emotional bits uh
like how the users feel not just about
the story but also about the characters.
>> That is so interesting. Wow, I learned a
lot more there than I thought. That was
awesome. Really good example. Chip, two
final questions. Where can folks find
you online if they want to reach out and
maybe work with you or uh maybe even
just share the stuff that you offer if
folks want to reach out? And then how
can listeners be useful to you? I'm like
I'm on social media, LinkedIn, Twitter.
I don't post a lot, but I keep telling
myself that I should do more because I
kind like the conversation with uh with
um with with readers. Uh so I'm actually
about to start a a SL a subspect. Um so
I have like a placeholder for subspect
right now and I'm thinking of doing it
for more system thinking because I think
it's a very interesting skill. Um and so
like thinking of doing a YouTube channel
on book reviews and basically books that
help you think better. So I think it's
the first book I'm going to review is
probably like this book because it's
like my favorite book growing up. Uh and
I have been like keep on reading it. Uh
so yes. So how can it be helpful like
send me books that you like uh books
that have you have changed the way you
think or change you the way you do
anything. So, I would appreciate it.
>> Amazing. I'm I'm excited to read that
book.
>> Uh, Chip, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thank you so much, Lenny, for having me.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.